this is the wreckage of san jose
it was a spanish galleon found near the
colombian coast
but now a new battle has unfolded around
this ship
the fact is that a lot of gold silver
and precious stones
worth about 20 billion dollars were
found on board this ship
these treasures were to be delivered to
king philip v of spain
the captain of the ship knew the british
could be hunting for this gold
but still couldn't avoid the trap on
july 8
1708 it was wrecked and sank to a depth
of about three and a half
miles but lifting a 300 year old ship
from such a depth
is a very delicate complicated and
expensive process
and the wreckage of san jose remains the
most precious in the world
but divers often find gold in other
treasures at the bottom of the ocean
actually quite often a much more
interesting discovery was found near the
yucatan peninsula in mexico
it looks not just strange but sinister
it's an underwater river at a depth of
100 feet
such an anomaly formed in a tunnel which
was filled with fresh rain water
but at the bottom of the funnel was a
source of salty groundwater
because of the density difference these
waters don't mix
and you can see a clear surface of the
salt water stream
if you pour some oil into a glass and
then some water you'll see the same
effect
cenote angelita has become a popular
place for divers
and source of many funny photos
the next find seriously stirred up fans
of myths about atlantis
this is the yanaguni monument huge stone
formations at a depth of 85 feet
divers trace the clear contours of the
pyramids streets and stairs there
the entire structure is about half a
soccer field in size
it's about five thousand years old and
some walls there have
carvings many believe these are the
remains of the legendary civilizations
of mu
or lemuria but their technology simply
wouldn't allow them to build such
a structure so many myths and
assumptions were spread around yanaguni
monument
but also a lot of skepticism scientists
claim that the monument appeared
naturally
by means of underwater currents that
form the hard stones in this way
and what divers call carvings are
actually just scratches
and while scientists have come to clear
conclusions many archaeologists continue
to argue that yanaguni monument is
human-made
and it has pyramids roads and even a
stadium
this underwater city needs no room for
speculation
as we know its origin lion city it's
still in almost perfect condition
arches statues decorations on the walls
and even wooden structures
all this has been preserved at a depth
comparable to a subway car length
at the dawn of this city an advanced and
very powerful society live there
some fines there are about 1300 years
old
in 1959 the city was flooded in order to
build
a new hydroelectric power plant so in
place of the great city
now stands human-made qian dao lay for
decades this place was forgotten
until 2001 a tour of divers accidentally
stumbled upon it
now this place is popular among
experienced divers from all over the
world
baltic sea anomaly this thing has
generated a lot of disputes and
conspiracy theories around the world
it was found in june 2011 in the baltic
sea
the object is similar in shape to the
star wars millennium falcon
and was like a hockey rink in length
many people believe this is an
alien flying ship that crashed on our
planet
others believe it is the remnants of an
ancient city sank in the waves many
years ago
when divers finally managed to get to
this strange object
they took samples and gave them to
scientists for analysis
this stone formation was part of a
glacier of which there is a lot in that
area
however the team that found this anomaly
continues to claim it's more than just
that
they say when they approach this object
all electrical equipment
just stopped working and when they were
coming back the equipment would come
back to normal
now to see this underwater city you can
dive even without scuba gear
this is heraclion also known as tronus
it is located at a depth about the
length of a school bus
this city is at least 14 000 years old
its ruins were found by the french
underwater archaeologist
frank gojo in 1999. many coins dishes
and
unfinished statues of the deities were
found there in 2010
the ancient egyptian boat varus was
raised to the surface
despite the huge number of
archaeological finds only five percent
of the city have been researched yet
in 2012 divers came across an unknown
anomaly
a luminous spiral of incredible size it
lay quietly on the bottom of the sea
near the western coast of australia
it turned out to be a living creature
which is called apolemia
yet it's not one creature but a whole
colony of sea creatures called
synonophores they cling to each other
forming a centipede of incredible length
the outer ring of this particular
spiral-shaped apolemia was about 154
feet long
for comparison the largest blue whale
that ever existed was only 98 feet long
but even more surprising is the fact
that this thing is a predator
it turns out this spiral creature has
parts that are responsible for hunting
and its other parts digest food apolemia
doesn't lie
on the bottom and wait for something to
fall into its mouth either
it can swim and hunt for small plankton
fish and even other apolemias
even though they're incredibly rare you
still need to be aware of them because
their stings are quite dangerous
antica theory mechanism say that with me
antikythera
in 1901 a crew of sponge divers
discovered the wreckage of a roman cargo
ship
as deep as a football field is wide the
crew collected many valuable artifacts
statues of bronze and marble pottery
jewelry
and a computer what a computer on a
roman ship
wow the antikythera mechanism is
considered one of the oldest analogues
of the modern computer
for years scientists couldn't understand
what kind of mechanism it was
but when they tested it with x-ray
everything changed
it was made by the greek masters and is
dated approximately 100 to 150 years bce
the antikythera mechanism turned out to
be a complex machine
consisting of about 30 bronze gears it
was used to follow the movements of the
sun and moon
and to predict eclipses this underwater
find didn't bring
20 billion dollars as the treasure of
the wreckage of san jose
but the knowledge it gave to historians
and researchers is priceless
here's another one two divers were going
to photograph blue sharks
but their lenses caught something more
amazing a giant jellyfish
as the divers themselves said it was
like a massive boiled egg which appeared
out of nowhere
it was a barrel jellyfish of abnormal
size
the thing was almost five feet in
diameter and its length was almost like
the divers themselves
this is the biggest jellyfish ever found
in the british seas
although they are considered
non-dangerous they are still
gentle giants meanwhile this discovery
in a brazilian river will make you stay
away from diving
a giant anaconda bartolomia bove and his
partner filmed one of the biggest
anacondas ever found
it had the length of an adult giraffe
and weighed more than the average human
and while bartolomeo got used to
swimming near sharks
meaning this snake was an adrenaline
pumping exercise for him
thankfully the snake was quite curious
and harmless
one of the most interesting places for
diving is surprisingly far from season
oceans
or the cave it's found in the west of
the ural mountains
and is shaped like a siphon the
underwater part of the cave system
stretches for three miles
so this makes it one of the longest
underwater tunnels on our planet
but its most outstanding feature is
water
the environment rich in minerals cleans
the water and makes it crystal clear
divers can clearly see at a distance of
150 feet
this means that orta cave is just the
perfect place for underwater photography
like that giant octopus about to get you
ha
made you look